hi I'm Tom from signature hardware if
your kitchen faucet is leaking or the
handles that stopped turning properly it
could be caused by a buildup of sediment
and hard water deposits in the faucet
cartridge in this video we're going to
show you how to clean the cartridge
yourself and get your faucet working
smoothly again we're going to need a
couple of tools for the job an
open-ended wrench maybe an Allen wrench
screwdriver plastic bowl a bucket of
clean water a towel and an extra pair of
hands first you'll need to shut off the
water supply valves located under your
sink turn the valves clockwise to close
them then turn on both your hot and cold
water taps to drain any excess water
from the faucet
once that's done turn the taps back to
the off position at this point it's a
good idea to close or block the drain
this will keep any small parts from
falling into it arrange a towel behind
the faucet to absorb any water now we're
going to remove the faucet handles
faucet handles can differ by model but
they're typically attached by a screw if
there's a decorative cap or button on
the handle you'll want to take that off
first to get to the script
if there's a discussion or other trim
remove that as well now loosen the
cartridge assembly with your wrench and
remove it your faucet cartridge may look
different than the one we have here but
the steps for cleaning them are
essentially the same if you have an
extra pair of hands to help you now
would be a good time to put them to use
place the plastic bowl upside down over
the faucet hole to direct water spray
towards the drain have your extra set of
hands turn on the hot water supply under
the sink while you hold the bowl let the
water run for about three or four
seconds this will flush out any debris
trapped in the faucet or in the water
line once this is done turn the hot
water supply off and then repeat the
process for the cold water now we're
going to rinse out the cartridges by
placing them individually in the bucket
of clean water open and close the
cartridges by twisting the stem you may
have to place the handle on temporarily
to move them now reinsert the cartridges
then reassemble the handles it's
important not to over tighten the
cartridge assembly stop when you feel
resistance otherwise you could damage a
faucet if your faucet handles are
working in Reverse you probably place
the cartridges on the wrong sides simply
take them back out and switch them now
reopen the supply valves under the sink
and slowly turn on your taps check for
any leaks and make sure the water runs
smoothly if you have any questions visit
signature Hardware comm or call customer
service at 186 six eight five five two
two eight four thanks for watching